# note-mcp

MCP servers for Notecard, Notehub, and Blues Expert.

> [!WARNING]
> These MCP servers are experimental and subject to change. Please wait until a versioned release is available before relying on them.

## About

This project is a collection of MCP servers for Notecard, Notehub, and Blues Expert.

### Notecard (STDIO)

The Notecard MCP server is a local tool design to help you develop Notecard projects.
It provides a simple abstraction to Notecard (using the Notecard CLI), and can help you get started setting up and configuring your Notecards.
This tool provides utilities to update firmware, connect your Notecards to WiFi networks, and more.

#### Prerequisites

- [Notecard CLI](https://github.com/blues/notecard-cli)

### Notehub (STDIO)

The Notehub MCP server is a local tool design to help you develop Notehub projects.
It provides a simple abstraction to Notehub (using the Notehub API), and can help you get started setting up and configuring your Notehub projects.
This tool provides utilities to create and manage Notehub projects, view Note events,and to manage your Notehub devices.

### Blues Expert (Docker/HTTP)

The Blues Expert MCP server is a remote tool design to help you develop Notecard projects.
When used with an LLM, it can help to guide with best practices, for both writing code as well as leveraging Notecard's capabilities.
The Blues Expert MCP provides correct and accurate information about Notecard, and can help to reduce hallucinations and errors generated by LLMs when building Notecard projects.
Use this tool to accelerate your development process, and to ensure that your projects are built correctly and efficiently according to best practices.

## Build

To build the MCP servers, you'll need to have the following tools installed:

- Go (atleast v1.23)
- Make

Per MCP server, you'll need to have the following tools installed:

- Notecard MCP: [Notecard CLI](https://github.com/blues/notecard-cli)
- Notehub MCP: Notehub Account with API access
- Blues Expert MCP: [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)

Then, run the following command:

```bash
make build
```

## Install

Add the following to your `mcp.json` file, where `mcp.json` is the file that determines where the MCP servers are located (e.g. for Claude Desktop, this is `claude_desktop_config.json`):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "notecard": {
      "type": "stdio",
      "command": "/YOUR/PATH/TO/note-mcp/notecard/notecard"
    },
    "notehub": {
      "type": "stdio",
      "command": "/YOUR/PATH/TO/note-mcp/notehub/notehub",
      "args": [
        "--env",
        "/YOUR/PATH/TO/note-mcp/.env"
      ]
    },
    "blues-expert": {
      "type": "http",
      "url": "http://localhost:8080/expert/mcp"
    }
  },
}
```

The `.env` file for Notehub MCP should contain the following variables:

```bash
NOTEHUB_USER="your_notehub_username"
NOTEHUB_PASS="your_notehub_password"
```

Additional variables will be added.

## Development

To run the MCP inspector, you'll need nodejs installed (atleast v18).

For Notecard MCP:

```bash
make inspect notecard
```

For Notehub MCP:

```bash
make inspect notehub
```

For Blues Expert MCP:

```bash
make inspect blues-expert
```
